welcome to the science Asylum I am Nick
lucid there are a lot of people that
watch sports most of them for the action
or the competitiveness or the loyalty to
their home team they see an interaction
between people where there are rules and
penalties and so on I'd like to share
with you guys how I see sports spoiler
alert it's through science will keep
things simple and stick with hockey
because ice let's start with the puck
sliding across the ice the puck can make
it all the way from one end of the rink
to the other without slowing down much
ridiculous the natural state of all
things is to be present the state of
rest or of moving uniformly straight
forward are equally as likely without a
force impressed how dare you try to
knock off you guys okay so we hear about
Aristotle a lot because his social
status made his voice a little louder
but he was almost always wrong I guess
in that area our society hasn't changed
very much anyway it's no surprise that
Newton wins this argument but what the
heck was he saying and wait what was the
situation again all right hockey the
puck sliding on the ice is an example of
Newton's first law of motion which says
if something is sitting still or moving
in a straight line at a steady speed
then it will keep doing that until
something else changes it in short if
you don't push it it'll keep doing what
it's doing examples of this law are
difficult to find though see most things
we deal with every day always have an
influence on them those influences are
called forces and they come in all kinds
like pushes and pulls and less frequent
forces like buoyancy which we covered in
the why do things float video we even
have some more seemingly magical forces
like magnetism so what the puck is
giving us all this trouble anyway chill
I'm getting there okay in our everyday
lives there are two forces that are
almost always there gravity and friction
as long as what we're looking at doesn't
move up or down then gravity doesn't
really affect how it moves so that one
is easy to ignore friction is a bit
trickier though but in hockey there's
ice nothing is ever truly frictionless
but ice gets pretty close it's about a
hundred times weaker than any friction
you're used to that makes it about 1%
scientists usually ignore things that
small and we're gonna do the same thing
for this video if the wall behind the
goal hadn't gotten in the way the puck
could have easily slid for 10 to 12
miles
so to summarize since ice is
frictionless and the puck isn't moving
up and down as it slides there is
basically nothing affecting the puck and
with nothing trying to change its motion
it's going to keep doing what it's doing
Newton's first law in action so what
happens when there is something
affecting the puck you'll have to watch
the next video to find out and on that
note what's the craziest encounter
you've ever had with ice please share in
the comments mine involves my car and an
unhealthy level of stupidity it's
actually pretty amazing I'm alive today
and until next time remember it's okay
to be a little crazy
you